## Leaving academia

(WORK IN PROGRESS)

In January 2023, I left academia to work on global conservation from a different perspective.

Since I started my Bachelor in ecology, I have been obsessed with the idea to do conservation science that would be both global and very applied. In my PhD, I explored how research could deliver message to policy makers (e.g., international agreements on protected areas are not met), while during my postdoc as explored how research could support key conservation institutions (e.g., how can we fasten Red List assessment process). Both experiences drove me to the same conclusion: research is not applied enough for me. I believed for many years that I could do research differently and meet the dream vision that I have of an applied research; I now think conversely, that conservation science is relying too much on research effort, which is not the most effective community to achieve applied goals.

The main inherent blockage that I identified in conservation research is the centrality of papers in the research process. First, this drives research projects and outputs to be driven by novelty rather than usefulness and impact. I observed in many cases that what is needed from an applied conservation perspective is something very simple (e.g., information on how much deforestation happens within protected areas; providing stakeholders with basic information on some species); however, while researchers may be the most skilled to provide such information, they cannot publish such work and are thus not able to grab this low hanging fruit. Second, repetition is often a key element to make a research outuput useful (e.g., providing year estimates of protected areas deforestation, providing regular priority lists for Red List assessors); however, most research projects stop at publication of the article and are never re-run: research consider the work done at publication and hope that conservation stakeholders will grab their tools. These two main blockages made me realise that researcher is a job of saying (either saying that we found a new method, or making a one-shot statement on e.g., progress towards international targets), rather than a job of doing.

At the end of my postdoc, I realised that what I considered the most applied in my work (i.e., providing some tools to Red List assessors, making analyses that can integrate NGO reports, communicating with media and outreach) were actually peripheral elements to the job of researcher. Although my 5 years of research were passionate (I truely enjoyed running the analyses I did and writing papers), I felt that I lacked interest for the core work of academia and was only interested in the peripheral elements. Additionally, while indeed a researcher position offers to play with these peripheral elements, I started thinking that NGOs were better suited for these aspects. Indeed, the collective structure of NGOs make them, I think, more suited to handle communication and lobbying (e.g., because they have specifically trained staff and are more identiied than individual researchers) and to work towards an applied-oriented projects (e.g., because they are less influenced by the need to be novel, or by the individual interests which are very strong in academia given the current pressure to get a position).

This made me reconsider what could be my role in conservation. Considering that NGOs are making the most important work from an applied perspective, I will now try not to replace them in speaking with media, policy makers, or conservation stakeholders, but instead to support them with relevant research methods and skills to help them provide the best and most useful outputs. The three values behind this idea are impactness (I will look for projects that are directly useful to the conservation community), simplicity (I will always prefer simple methods if they provide the output needed by the community), modesty (I will not try to shine and go beyond the community I'm working for). This is what I will try to achieve with Conservara: providing the skills and thoughts that I developed in academia to applied conservation stakeholders that may lack such resources. 

Eventually, I am planning to change career to become a primary school teacher, which I think will be facinating and fun, but I will first see what can be achieved with the idea behind Conservara.
